README.md, before:

# ProductivityWithShortcuts
Code with exercises to learn shortcuts and their associated thinking patterns

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

## What you'll learn
* Increase your productivity by using shortcuts. We'll use IntelliJ on windows as an example.
* Think along with your pair, who's already proficient in using shortcuts.
* In what situations/patterns shortcuts are helpful.
* Some patterns for multi-cursor usage.

## How you'll learn
By doing! The only way to get shortcuts in your fingers is by using them. All. The. Time.

This repo provides a structured aproach to learn with exercises that will help you move forward.
The default version discusses shortcut combinations from the [windows keymap](./windows/outline.md). 
If you are using a Mac, there is a version available for you in [./macOs](./macOS/outline.md).

# How to use this repository
`git clone` this repository

The titles in the outline below are links to the different chapters.

Each chapter contains a thorough explanation and exercises. 
[Windows hotkey tutorial](./windows/outline.md)
Eventhough the progression in these chapters might seem to be naturally increasing in difficulty, you don't need to think of them as thresholds.
The only reason there are chapters is to help your brain make paths even better by trying to categorize certain types of shortcuts so you'll think of them sooner in real life.

## Good Luck, Have Fun!
You can start your journey by navigating to the [Windows hotkey tutorial](./windows/outline.md) or the [Mac hotkey tutorial](./macOS/outline.md).
If you like these exercises, share 'em with your friends and colleagues, `fork` or `watch` it.

GLHF!

# License
The example code is published under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

The mac and windows logo icons used are under the [Creative Common License (Attr. 3 Unported)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), and are completely attributed to the artist [Bogdan Rosu](https://www.iconfinder.com/bogdanrosu).

# Contributors

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://sch3lp.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/648703?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Tim Schraepen</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sddevelopment-be/penguin-pragmatic-patterns/commits?author=Sch3lp" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sddevelopment-be/penguin-pragmatic-patterns/commits?author=Sch3lp" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#ideas-Sch3lp" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

Commit message:

Add useful plugins to the ReadMe file

README.md, after:

# ProductivityWithShortcuts
Code with exercises to learn shortcuts and their associated thinking patterns

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
[![All Contributors](https://img.shields.io/badge/all_contributors-1-orange.svg?style=flat-square)](#contributors-)
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-BADGE:END -->

## What you'll learn
In this tutorial series, you will learn:

* How to increase your productivity by using IntelliJ shortcuts.
* When and in what contexts shortcuts are useful.
* Some patterns for multi-cursor usage.

This tutorial walks you through different scenarios where the use of hotkeys is demonstrated in real-world situations.
Learning them this way will help you identify situations where the use of a hotkey can be beneficial during your day-to-day work.

## How you'll learn
By doing! The only way to get shortcuts in your fingers is by using them. All. The. Time.

This repo provides a structured aproach to learn with exercises that will help you move forward.
The default version discusses shortcut combinations from the [windows keymap](./windows/outline.md). 
If you are using a Mac, there is a version available for you in [./macOs](./macOS/outline.md).

# How to use this repository
`git clone` this repository

The titles in the outline below are links to the different chapters.

Each chapter contains a thorough explanation and exercises. 
[Windows hotkey tutorial](./windows/outline.md)
Eventhough the progression in these chapters might seem to be naturally increasing in difficulty, you don't need to think of them as thresholds.
The only reason there are chapters is to help your brain make paths even better by trying to categorize certain types of shortcuts so you'll think of them sooner in real life.

## Good Luck, Have Fun!
You can start your journey by navigating to the [Windows hotkey tutorial](./windows/outline.md) or the [Mac hotkey tutorial](./macOS/outline.md).
If you like these exercises, share 'em with your friends and colleagues, `fork` or `watch` it.

GLHF!

# Additional tips
If you are interested in a quick reference for the most commonly used hotkeys, take a look at [these JetBrains IDEA reference cards](https://resources.jetbrains.com/storage/products/intellij-idea/docs/IntelliJIDEA_ReferenceCard.pdf).

Looking for more personalized hotkey suggestions that will improve your development speed?  
Take a look at the plugin [Key Promoter X](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/9792-key-promoter-x). It tracks your most commonly used actions, suggests hotkeys. It also shows you how many times you used a shortcut or took the long route.

Another useful IDEA plugin for using hotkeys is the [Presentation assistant](https://www.jetbrains.com/idea/guide/tutorials/presenting/presentation-assistant/).
This adds a hovering window which displays the key combination you just used. It is really helpful when sharing your screen with others (when
pairing, for example). It can also be used as additional feedback to simply remind yourself of what you just did.


# License
The example code is published under the [MIT License](LICENSE.md).

The mac and windows logo icons used are under the [Creative Common License (Attr. 3 Unported)](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/), and are completely attributed to the artist [Bogdan Rosu](https://www.iconfinder.com/bogdanrosu).

# Contributors

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:START - Do not remove or modify this section -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->
<!-- markdownlint-disable -->
<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center"><a href="http://sch3lp.github.io"><img src="https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/648703?v=4?s=100" width="100px;" alt=""/><br /><sub><b>Tim Schraepen</b></sub></a><br /><a href="https://github.com/sddevelopment-be/penguin-pragmatic-patterns/commits?author=Sch3lp" title="Code">💻</a> <a href="https://github.com/sddevelopment-be/penguin-pragmatic-patterns/commits?author=Sch3lp" title="Documentation">📖</a> <a href="#ideas-Sch3lp" title="Ideas, Planning, & Feedback">🤔</a></td>
  </tr>
</table>
<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->

<!-- ALL-CONTRIBUTORS-LIST:END -->

<!-- markdownlint-restore -->
<!-- prettier-ignore-end -->
